= Unfuzzle

== Description

The Unfuzzle gem provides an interface to the Unfuddle XML API

== Installation

    sudo gem install vigetlabs-unfuzzle --source=http://gems.github.com

== Usage

To get started, you'll need your Unfuddle subdomain and a valid username / 
password combination:

    require 'unfuzzle'
    
    Unfuzzle.subdomain = 'viget'
    Unfuzzle.username  = 'bopbip'
    Unfuzzle.password  = 'bleep'
    
Once that is configured, you can start accessing data from the API.

=== Projects

Pulling back a list of projects is simple.  Based on the currently logged-in
user, you can see which ones he has access to:

    projects = Unfuzzle.projects # => [#<Unfuzzle::Project:0x11e9280 ...> , ...]
    
If you don't want all projects, you can find one by its slug (or short name):

    Unfuzzle.project('salty') # => #<Unfuzzle::Project:0x11e9280 ...>
    
Or by ID:

    Unfuzzle.project(1) # => #<Unfuzzle::Project:0x11e9280 ...>

There are a few attributes available for a project:

    project = Unfuzzle.projects.first
    project.id                              # => 123
    project.slug                            # => "salty"
    project.name                            # => "Salty Co."
    project.archived?                       # => false
    project.created_at.strftime('%Y-%m-%d') # => "2008-07-28"
    
To see a list of additional attributes, take a look at the documentation for
Project.

=== Milestones

Each project can have milestones.  You can access these from a single project:

    project.milestones # => [#<Unfuzzle::Milestone:0x10bdca8 ...>, ...]

Milestones have attributes:

    milestone = project.milestones.first
    milestone.id                          # => 1
    milestone.name                        # => "Milestone #1"
    milestone.due_on.strftime('%m/%d/%Y') # => "07/30/2008"

A full list is available in the Milestone documentation.

=== Tickets

Tickets exist for a project:

    ticket = project.tickets.first
    ticket.title        # => "Ticket #23"
    ticket.number       # => 23
    ticket.description  # => "Yo dawg, I hear you like tickets in your project ..."
    ticket.status       # => "closed"

And can also be associated to a milestone for the project:

    ticket = project.milestones.first.tickets.first
    ticket.title        # => "Ticket #1"
    ticket.number       # => 1
    ticket.description  # => "Wash my car"
    ticket.status       # => "closed"

Unfuddle has additional associations for a ticket, including component, severity,
and priority:

    ticket.component      # => #<Unfuzzle::Component:0x12c5b54 ...>
    ticket.component_name # => "User Accounts"
    ticket.severity       # => #<Unfuzzle::Severity:0x12a357c ...>
    ticket.severity_name  # => "Development"
    ticket.priority       # => #<Unfuzzle::Priority:0x12811fc @id=3>
    ticket.priority_name  # => "Normal"

See the Ticket documentation for more information.

== Updating

Currently, only ticket updating is supported and only for a subset of the data:

    ticket.title = 'This is a new title' # => "This is a new title"
    ticket.update                        # => #<Unfuzzle::Response:0x1275280 ...>

This will update the title of the ticket.  Other fields that can be updated include
description and status. 

== License

Copyright (c) 2009 Patrick Reagan of Viget Labs (mailto:patrick.reagan@viget.com)

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person
obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation
files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without
restriction, including without limitation the rights to use,
copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following
conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES
OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT
HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY,
WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
